Final Project - GD50

Tetris

The game presented in this folder is my final project for the Harvard games development course (Spent throughout both my junior and senior year of high school). It is the arcade classic, tetris, which essentially is a puzzle game. The purpose and/or goal of the game is to prevent the blocks from stacking up to the top of the screen for as long as possible. The reason behind choosing on replicating this game was due to my increased intrest in puzzle games growing up and with tetris always being my favorite. I chose to do it in 2d game format rather than 3d as it shares more similarities to the actual game in itself. 

The display of the game is fairly simple and straightfoward, it is a 16x10 grid game making it more of a portrait type game rather than a landscape one. It has a score counter on the top left which is incremented up one whenever a level of the grid is full of bricks. Additionally, when a level is full of bricks the program then elimanates the whole grid level of the bricks so the game can go on for longer. There are 7 different block shapes with various colors. Once the game is done the program displays a "The End :(" message to indicate that the game is done.   

Now let's shift focus to how to play the game. When opening up the game, it is automatically loaded up to increase user engagement. One block falls at a time and the user may be able to shift it's place on the screen through using the left and right arrows. Users also have the ability to change the way the shape of the block falls onto the screen through using the "a" and "d" keys. The reason behind using these keys was because it is somewhat of a universal understanding that the keys "awsd" are a subsitute for the arrow keys in computer games. Moving on, once the block has been placed onto the bottom of the screen in preference to the user's liking, another block is then appeared for the user to manipulate again and so on. Random blocks do not appear, the program checks the blocks already placed and then puts up a block which makes sense for the game to go on for as long as possible. 